#11504 v1.5 release notes (#53647)
airbytehq/airbyte: docs/release_notes/v-1.5.md

> # Airbyte 1.5.0

Reviewer: Can we please add:
1. (Enterprise) Connector Resource Allocation
2. Bug fix for  https://github.com/airbytehq/airbyte/issues/46097 (you can talk with Jon Tan about this)

Valentine's Day let you down? That's OK. You'll love this. Airbyte 1.5.0 was released on February 19, 2025. We’re excited to share new improvements and changes to the Airbyte platform.

> ## 🚀 Self-Managed Enterprise Changes

Reviewer: I suggest starting with the platform changes (for all) before the enterprise changes :)

These changes bring new capabilities to Airbyte's Self-Managed Enterprise customers.

### Mappings in the UI

> We introduced mappings in the API in version 1.3, and it's now available in Airbyte's user interface, too. Use mappings to hash, encrypt, and rename fields, and filter rows. You set up mappings on each stream, ensuring your source data arrives in your destination in a more meaningful way. [**Learn more >**](../using-airbyte/mappings)

Reviewer: Nice!

![](../using-airbyte/images/mappings.png)

### OpenTelemetry (OTel) metrics monitoring

> Airbyte now instruments a number of crucial metrics about syncs and data movement. If you use OTel as your observability framework, you can configure Airbyte to send this data to an OTel collector endpoint so you can consume these metrics in your monitoring tool of choice. The following metrics are available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Airbyte Self-Managed Enterprise now generates a number of crucial metrics about syncs and volumes of data moved. You can configure Airbyte to send telemetry data to an OTel collector endpoint so you can consume these metrics in your downstream monitoring tool of choice. The following metrics are available:
```

- Sync details
- Sync duration
- Volume of data moved
- API requests

To start sending metrics, update your `values.yaml` file with the following configurations. [**Learn more >**](../operator-guides/collecting-metrics)

```yaml title="values.yaml"
global:
    edition: enterprise # This is an enterprise-only feature
    metrics:
        enabled: true
        otlp:
            enabled: true
            collectorEndpoint: "YOUR_ENDPOINT" # The OTel collector endpoint Airbyte sends metrics to. You configure this endpoint outside of Airbyte as part of your OTel deployment.
```

## 🚀 Platform Changes

These changes improve Airbyte for all Self-Managed users.

> ### Declarative OAuth 2.0 in the connector builder

Reviewer: Can we include a Builder screenshot showing how the interface looks in the product?

If you're building a connector to an API and want to authenticate with OAuth, you can now authenticate directly in the Connector Builder. This simplified flow ensures you can start building connectors to APIs that support OAuth without writing code to authenticate yourself and provide Airbyte with tokens. OAuth 2.0 is also supported in the low-code connector development kit (CDK), where you can define your authentication using YAML.

To learn more, see the authentication documentation: [No-code Connector Builder](../connector-development/connector-builder-ui/authentication#oauth) | [Low-code CDK](../connector-development/config-based/advanced-topics/oauth).

> ### Connection tags

Reviewer: Can we include a Connections page screenshot showing how the interface looks in the product?
